 
 
 
Please refer to page 3 of this report for important disclosures, analyst certifications and additional information. Itaú BBA does and seeks to do bu siness with 
Companies covered in this research report. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of 
this report. Investors should not consider this report as the sole factor in making their investment decision. Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A. is the securities 
arm of Itaú Unibanco Group. Itaú BBA is a register ed mark used by Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A.  
 September 12, 2023  | Flash News  
AGRIBUSINESS  TEAM  
 
Daniel Sasson, CFA  
+55-11-3073 -3031  
daniel.sasson@itaubba.com  
 
Larissa Pérez, CNPI  
+55-11-3073 -3908  
larissa.perez@itaubba.com  Raízen  & Rumo  
Brazil | Outperform  
 
Cosan Day  – Still Optimistic With  Raízen  and Rumo    
Cosan held its Investor Day today,  featuring the participation of management from  Raízen , Rumo , 
Compass, Moove and Cosan Investimentos . Below,  we discuss the highlights of Raízen ’s and 
Rumo’s presentations; for the other companies, please see our O il & Gas team ’s note. 
While there were no major announcements, we were glad  to see Raízen’s  management focus on  
the evolution of its agricultural productivity, and we also welcome d Rumo’s detailed explanation 
of the potential of its North Operations, particularly with respect to the LRV railway.    
• Raízen’s  CEO  reiterated the company’s commitment to : i) crush ing at least 80 mtons of 
sugarcane this harvest, with significant upside potential; ii) attempt ing to generate  positive 
cash flow this year, despite the heavy investment pipeline ; and iii) deliver ing E2G plants on 
time and on budget, as exemplified by the ina uguration of the Bonfim plant this month.  
• For Rumo, highlights  included : i) the Central Railway’s potential to diversify cargo and thus 
add value; ii) an investment update on the Paulista Railway, with over 22% of its investment 
already committed ; and iii) a report on the beginning of construction work on the LRV Railway  
and an explanation on its potential volume and yield growth in the medium term.   
Raízen  
• By the end of the 2023 -24 harvest, 80% of Raízen’s  plant ed area  will likely have reach ed 
its potential , compared with  the current level of around  65%. Looking ahead , this increase 
in agricultural productivity could add BRL ~3 billion to the  bottom line , per management’s 
estimates, as Raízen  wishes to maintain its gains  in TCH levels for the long term . 
• The company remains optimistic about a structural change in sugar prices , given the 
tight supply -and-demand outlook for the medium term. This is particularly important given 
the heavy investment agenda the company is planning  for the next couple of years – strong 
sugar result s would likely  help to strengthen  Raízen’s  balance sheet.  
• Finally, management exp ects the profitability of Raízen’s  Brazilian Mobility  operation  
to increase  in the short term  after some challenging recent quarters due to  the volatility 
in the domestic fuels market. Key drivers include the strengthening of the company’s  
integrated supply chain and an expansion of the client  base , both of which are helping to 
increase the operation’s value -added.   
Rumo  
• The first 34 km of the LRV  railway are already being built , including several of the 21 
bridges planned  for the whole project.  The company restated its intention of begin ning to  
operat e the Campo Verde terminal by 2026 , bene fitting from the strong crop outlook for the  
state of Mato Grosso,  which alone is responsible for over half of the global grain trade flow.  
• Another highlight was the strength of the Central Railway , on which  work was finished 
last quarter. Besides traditional agricultural cargo such as grains, sugar and fertilizers  being 
transported in partnership with names like Caramuru, Coruripe and Andali, Rumo is also 
aiming  to increase loads of other types of cargo, which would add value to the operation.  
• Regarding the South Operations, management stated that it expects the company t o be 
able to terminate its West Railway concession by YE24 once  some final legal issues  are 
resolved. T here was no news  on the South Railway , but a new economic equilibrium is being  
sought by the company.     
Ticker (local)  RAIL3  
Target Price – BRL (YE24)  30.00  
 
 
Stock Data  
Current price  BRL 22.14  
Upside (YE24)  % 35.5  
52 Week high/low  BRL 24.44/16.21  
Shares outstanding  th 1,851,836  
Market capitalization  BRL m  41,000  
3-mth avg daily vol.  BRL m  327 
Performance (%)  1m 12m 
Absolute  -5.3 8.8 
Vs. Ibovespa  -2.2 3.7 
  
   
Ticker (local)  RAIZ4  
Target Price - BRL(YE23)  5.00 
 
 
Stock Data  
Current price  BRL 3.78 
Upside (YE23)  % 32.3  
52 Week high/low  BRL 4.88/2.25  
Shares outstanding  th 10,318,225  
Market capitalization  BRL m  39,003  
3-mth avg daily vol.  BRL m  86 
Performance (%)  1m 12m 
Absolute  -6.5 -9.2 
Vs. Ibovespa  -3.5 -13.5 
Current price  BRL 3.78 
Upside (YE23)  % 32.3  
 
 
 Raízen & Rumo  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 2 
• Security issues in Santos  are being tackled in three ways: i) strengthening internal control 
systems; ii) partnering with local authorities, including both the civil and military police forces ; 
and iii) engaging in community initiatives to enhance the quality  of life  of the people  living in 
the region,  following a methodology pioneered by the NGO Gerando Falcões.  
• Management also highlighted the enhancement of the FIPS regulatory model , under which  
Rumo operates in a partnership along  with MRS and VLI,  with the company  tending to the 
needs of all three p arties and investing to maintain  operations at the Port of Santos . Rumo 
has an ~80% market share in the port and is responsible for ~80% of the FIPS costs.  
  
 
 Raízen & Rumo  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 3 
 
DISCLAIMER    
Itaú BBA is a registered trademark used by Itaú Unibanco S.A.    
Ratings: Definitions, Dispersion and Banking Relations    
Ratings (1) Definition (2) Coverage (3) Banking Relation (4) 
Outperform  The analyst expects the stock to perform better than 
market average.  70% 70% 
Market Perform  The analyst expects the stock to perform in line with 
market average.  25% 24% 
Underperform  The analyst expects the stock to perform below market 
average.  5% 4% 
   
1. The ratings employed in this document (Outperform, Market Perform, and Underperform) basically correspond to Purchase, 
Hold, and Sell, respectively.  
2. The ratings represent the analyst’s assessment of the medium -term share price performance relative to the market average. 
These ratings may be reviewed by the analyst based on new developments or simply  due to variations in share prices (such 
changes may occur at any time). Companies are grouped into sectors, based on similar characteristics. Sectors: (i) Banks 
and Financial Services; (ii) Consumer Goods & Retail + Food & Beverage (iii) Healthcare + Educ ation; (iv) Steel & Mining 
+ Pulp & Paper; (v) Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals + Agribusiness; (vi) Real Estate & Construction; (vii) Telecommunications, 
Media and Technology; (viii) Transportation, Capital Goods and Logistics; (ix) Public Utility Services; and (x) Strategy.  
3. Percentage of companies covered by Itaú Unibanco S.A. in this rating category.  
4. Percentage of companies included in this rating category that were provided services by Itaú Unibanco S.A. or any of its 
affiliated companies.    
Third -Party Disclosures    
Companies Mentioned  Ticker  Recent 
Price  Rec Disclosure Items  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Rumo Sa  RAIL3  22.14 OP  X     X      
Raizen Sa - Preference  RAIZ4  3.78 OP - - - - -    
   
1. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control rendered services, including investment 
services and investment banking services, to the company(ies) surveyed in this report over the previous 12 months, and/or 
effectively  received (or expect to receive) due compensation for such services over the previous 12 months.  
2. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control acted as a market -maker until the date 
on which this report was issued, ren dering services for the companies surveyed herein.  
3. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control hold securities of issuers surveyed in 
this report, in addition to substantial ownership of such issuers’ share capital.  
4. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control, in the regular course of their business, 
(i) have granted and may eventually grant loans and/or (ii) render and may eventually render financial services to the issuer s 
surveyed in this report, as well as related persons, receiving due compensation for such.  
5. The issuers surveyed in this report, their subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control hold substantial 
ownership of Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries,  controllers and/or companies under common control. (1) 
6. Itaú Unibanco owns a net long position exceeding 0.5 % of the total issued share capital of the issuer.  
7. Itaú Unibanco owns a net short position exceeding 0.5 % of the total issued share capital of the issuer.  
(1) Substantial ownership is defined as direct or indirect shareholding interest of over 5% (five percent) of any type or class o f stock representing the share 
capital of issuers surveyed in this report.    
Material Information    
1. This report was prepared by Itaú Unibanco, a company regulated by the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), and dist ributed by 
Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A. and Itaú BBA. Itaú BBA is a registered trademark used by Itaú Unibanco.  
2. This report does not constitute an offer to buy or sell any financial instrument or to participate in any particular trading st rategy under any jurisdiction. 
The information herein was deemed reasonable on the date of publication and was obtained from reliab le public sources. Neither Itaú Unibanco nor 
any of its affiliated companies (“Grupo Itaú Unibanco”) ensure or guarantee, either expressly or implicitly, that the informa tion contained herein is 
accurate or complete. Furthermore, this report is not a compl ete or summarized representation of investment strategies, markets or developments 
thereof. The opinions, estimates and/or forecasts provided in this report reflect the current opinion of the analyst responsi ble for the content herein on 
the date of public ation and are, therefore, subject to change without notice. The prices and availability of the financial instruments are mere ly indicative 
and subject to change beyond the control of Itaú Unibanco. The prices used for the production of this report were obt ained as of the close of the 
relevant market. Neither Itaú Unibanco nor any of its affiliated companies are obligated to update, amend or otherwise alter this report, or to inform 
readers of any changes in its content, except upon termination of coverage o f the securities issuers discussed herein.  
3. The analyst responsible for preparing this document, highlighted in bold, hereby certifies that all opinions expressed in thi s report 
accurately, solely and exclusively reflect his/her personal views and opinions regarding all of the issuers and securities analyzed herein, 
provided in this document independently and autonomously, including from Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora, Itaú BBA, and any of their 
affiliated companies. Whereas the personal opinions of the analy st may diverge, Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora, Itaú BBA and/or any of their 
affiliated companies may have published or eventually publish other reports that are inconsistent and/or reach different conc lusions than 
those provided herein.  
4. The analyst respon sible for preparing this report is not registered and/or not qualified as a survey analyst at the NYSE or FINRA, nor is such analyst 
in any way associated with Itaú BBA USA Securities, Inc. and is, therefore, not subject to the provisions of Rule 2242 on c ommunications with 
researched companies, public appearances and transactions involving securities held in a research analyst account.  
5. Part of the analysts’ compensation is determined based on the total top line of Itaú Unibanco and some of its affiliated companies, including revenues 
arising from investment services and investment bank services. Nonetheless, the analyst responsible for the content in this r eport hereby certifies 
that no part of his/her compensation is or will be directly or indirectly cond itioned to any specific recommendations or opinions herein.  
6. The financial instruments and strategies discussed in this document may not be suitable for all investors and certain investo rs may not be eligible to 
purchase or participate in some or all of the m. This report does not take under consideration the specific investment objectives, financial situation or 
needs of any particular investor. Investors who intend to purchase or trade the securities covered in this report must seek o ut the applicable infor mation 
and documents in order to decide whether to invest in such securities. Investors must independently seek out financial, accou nting, legal, economic   
 
 Raízen & Rumo  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 4 
and market guidance, based on their personal characteristics, before making any investment decision r egarding the securities of the issuers analyzed 
in this report. Each investor must make the final investment decision based on a range of related risks, fees and commissions . In the event that a 
financial instrument is expressed in currencies other than th e one used by the investor, exchange rate variations may adversely affect the price, value 
or profitability. Financial instrument yields may vary, ultimately increasing or decreasing the price or value of financial i nstruments, either directly or 
indirectl y. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results, and this report does not ensure or guarantee, either exp ressly or implicitly, 
any possible future performance or any other aspect thereof. Itaú Unibanco and its affiliated companies may n ot be held liable for eventual losses, 
either direct or indirect, arising from the use of this report or its content. Upon using the content herein, investors under take to irrevocably and 
irreparably hold Itaú Unibanco and/or any of its affiliated companie s harmless against any claims, complaints, and/or losses.  
7. This report may not be reproduced or redistributed to third parties, either in whole or in part, for any reason whatsoever, w ithout prior written consent 
from Itaú Unibanco. This report and its cont ents are confidential.  
8. In accordance with the rules of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission, the analysts responsible for this report ha ve described scenarios 
of potential conflict of interest in the “Relevant Information” chart below.  
9. Itaú Un ibanco is not party to an agreement with the issuer(s) relating to the production of this report.  
10. The description of the internal organizational and administrative arrangements and of the information barriers in place for t he prevention and avoidance 
of conflicts of interest with respect to the production of research reports are available at www.itaucorretora.com.br . 
11. Material information regarding the proprietary models used by  Itaú Unibanco are available at Itaú BBA Bloomberg page.  
12. Other important regulatory information is available at https://disclosure -research.cloud.itau.com.br/home  
Additional note for reports distributed in the (i) United Kingdom: This material has been prepared by Itaú Unibanco S.A. for informational purposes 
only and it does not constitute or should be construed as a proposal for request to enter into any financial instrument or to participate in any specific 
business trading strategy. The financial instruments discussed in this material  may not be suitable for all investors and are directed  solely at Eligible 
Counterparties and Professional Clients, as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority. This material does not take into cons ideration the objectives, 
financial situation or specific needs of any particular client. Clients must independ ently obtain  financial, legal, tax, accounting, economic, credit, and 
market advice on an individual basis , based on their personal characteristics and objectives, prior to making any decision based on the information 
contained herein. By accessing this ma terial, you confirm that you are aware of the laws in your jurisdiction relating to  the provision and sale of 
financial service products. You acknowledge that this material contains proprietary information and you are required to keep this  information 
confidential . Itaú BBA International plc (IBBAInt) exempts itself from any liability  for any losses, whether  direct or indirect, which may arise from the 
use of this material and is under no obligation  to update the information contained in this material. Additionally, you confirm that you understand the 
risks related to the financial instruments discussed in this material . Due to international regulations, not all financial services/instruments may be 
available to all clients. You should be aware of and observe any such  restrictions when considering a potential investment decisions. Past 
performance and forecast are not  a reliable indicator of future results. The information  contained  herein has been  obtained from internal and external 
sources, and is believed to be reliable  as of the date in which this material was issued, however IBBAInt does not make any representation or 
warranty as to the completeness, reliability or accuracy of  information obtained  by third parties or public sources. Additional information  relative to 
the financial products discussed in this material is available upon request. Itaú BBA International plc has its registered offices at 100 Liverpool Street, 
Level 2, London, EC2M 2AT, U nited Kingdom, and is authorized  by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN 575225). For any queries, please contact  your relationship manager; (ii) European 
Economic  Area: this report is distributed in the EEA by Itaú BBA Europe, S.A. (“IBBA Europe”), an affiliate of Itaú Unibanco with registered offices 
at Rua Tierno Galvan, Torre III, 11 Piso, Lisbon, Portugal, authorized as a credit institution by the Bank of Portu gal (registration number 195), and 
as a financial intermediary by the Portuguese Securities Market Commission – CMVM (registration number 396). This material is informational only 
and shall not be construed as a proposal to trade with financial instruments , nor any kind of personal recommendation of advice. This material is 
directed solely at Professional Clients and Eligible Counterparties (as defined by Article 4, 1, (10) and Article 30 of Direc tive 2014/65/EU - MiFID II), 
who possess the experience, know ledge and expertise to make its own investment decisions and properly assess the risks that they incur. Relevant 
information regarding conflicts of interest contained in this material apply to IBBA Europe as an affiliate of Itaú Unibanco.  IBBA Europe does not 
exercise discretion as to the selection of the research reports to disseminate and exempts itself from any liability  for any losses, whether  direct or 
indirect, which may arise from the use of this material and/or its content and has no obligation  to update the information contained in this material. 
The financial instruments/services discussed in this material may not be available to all clients and/or in their respective jurisdictions. Additional 
information about the financial instruments discussed i n this material are available upon request  (iii) USA:  Itaú BBA USA Securities, Inc., a FINRA 
registered Broker Dealer and an SIPC member , is responsible for distributing this report and the content herein. Any U.S. investor who receives this 
report and intends to trade any of the securities addressed herein must do so through Itaú BBA USA Securities, Inc. at 540 Ma dison Avenue, 24th 
Floor,  New York, NY 10022; (iv) Brazil:  Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A., a subsidiary of Itaú Unibanco S.A., is authorized by the Central Bank of 
Brazil and sanctioned by the CVM to distribute this report. Contact the Customer Service channel for more information : 4004 -3131* (capital and 
metropolitan regions) or 0800 -722-3131 (other locations) during business hours (BRT). If additional service is required after contacting the 
aforementioned channels, contact: 0800 -570-0011 (business hours) or write to P.O. Box 67. 600, São Paulo – SP, CEP (Postal Code) 03162 -971. 
*(Local costs apply.)  
Relevant Information – Analysts    
Analysts  Disclosure Items   Sig 
1 2 3 4 5 
Daniel Sasson       OK 
Larissa Perez       OK 
   
1. The securities analyst(s) involved in preparing this report are associated with individuals who work for the issuers addressed herein.  
2. The securities analyst(s) spouse(s) or partner(s) hold, either directly or indirectly, on their own behalf or on behalf of th ird parties, stock and/or 
other se curities discussed in this report.  
3. The securities analyst(s), spouse(s) or partner(s) are directly or indirectly involved in the purchase, sale or intermediatio n of the securities 
discussed in this report.  
4. The securities analyst(s), respective spouse(s) or  partner(s) hold, either directly or indirectly, any financial interest related to the securities 
issuers analyzed in this report.    
 
 
 
 
