 
 
 
Please refer to page  4 of this report for important disclosures, analyst certifications and additional information. Itaú BBA does and seeks to do bu siness with 
Companies covered in this research report. As a resu lt, investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of 
this report. Investors should not consider this report as the sole factor in making their investment decision. Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A. i s the securities 
arm of Itaú Unibanco Group. Itaú BBA is a registered mark used by Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A.  
 September 12, 2023  | Flash News  
OIL, GAS & 
PETROCHEMICALS TEAM  
 
Monique Greco, CNPI  
monique.greco@itaubba.com  
+55 11 3073 -3358  
 
Bruna Amorim, CNPI  
bruna.amorim@itaubba.com  
+55-11 3073 -3931  
 
Eric de Mello, CNPI  
eric.mello@itaubba.com  
+55-11 3073 -3352  
 Cosan  
Brazil | Outperform  
 
Cosan  Day – Execute, Deliver, Repeat    
Today’s Cosan Investor Day event  featur ed the participation of management from Raízen , 
Rumo , Compass, Moove and Cosan Investimentos.  Below are the highlights of the presentations 
by Cosan Holding , Compass, Moove and Cosan Investimentos . For Rumo and Raízen , see our 
Agribusiness  team’s note here. 
Cosan’s top management reinforced that the current business portfolio is well adjusted to t ake 
advantage of promising sectors in Brazil and that the group will focus on the execution of the 
current growth plans, prioritiz ing rentability and flexibility in capital allocation decisions.  
We share management’s view that the assets have been mispriced and that the outstanding 
track record in execution and deliveries  across all businesses should allow for a correction of 
the stock price going forward. We reiterate our outperform  recommendation on the stock.   
• Cosan believes that its current business portfolio is well -sized for the group to position itself 
in irreplicable assets in segments where Brazil has clear competitive advantages, 
capitalizing on the tailwind s from the energy transition.   
• Compass  – Following the creation of Commit and the construction of the regasification 
terminal (TRSP), the investment cycle is complete and the focus is now fully on the 
continued expansion of Comgás, the replication of Comgás ’s business model in Commit's 
distribution companies, and the deve lopment of the Marketing & Services segment with the 
development of a diversified supply portfolio of imported liquified natural gas (LNG), 
domestic production, biomethane and small -scale LNG for potential B2B clients.  
• Moove  – After consolidating its regio nal position in South America and following the 
successful incorporation of Petrochoice, the priority is to replicat e the successful 
management system to grow in other geographies, with a focus on the U.S. and Europe.  
• Raízen – The focus is on completing the E2G plants and recovering results in the Brazilian 
Mobility operation. See our Agribusiness  team’s note here. 
• Rumo – The main priority is to increas e capacity to meet growing demand and complet e 
works up to Lucas do Rio Verde on time and on budget. See our Agribusiness  team’s note 
here.  
• Cosan Investimentos – The portfolio of around BRL 21 billion is currently focused on 
mining opportunities , with the acquisition of a stake in  Vale and São Luis Port ; and in lands, 
with prospects in new crops, irrigation and leverage in partnerships . 
• Holding – The holding is working with the companies to support the best capital allocation 
decisions, focus ing on execution and attracting and developing high -performance teams. 
Management also indicated a potential divest ment of  assets that have already reached 
maturity and in which they are not the best operators.  Lastly, management believes that all 
the companies in the portfolio are currently mispriced (particularly the holding ) and indicated 
that it will prioritize Cosan’s sh are buybacks over new investments  at this time.  
    
Ticker (local)  CSAN3  
Fair Value  (YE23)  BRL 23.0 
  
 
 
Stock Data  
Current price  BRL 17.65  
Upside (YE23)  % 30.3  
52 Week high/low  BRL 20.81/13.45  
Shares outstanding  th 1,866,632  
Market capitalization  BRL m  32,946  
3-mth avg daily vol.  BRL m  136 
Performance (%)  1m 12m 
Absolute  -10.7 -4.2 
Vs. Ibovespa  -7.8 -8.7 
 
 
Company x Ibovespa  
 
   Source: Itaú BBA  
 
708090100110120
Sep-22
Oct-22
Nov-22
Dec-22
Jan-23
Feb-23
Mar-23
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
 IBOV CSAN3
 
 Cosan  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 2 
Compass    
An increasingly liquid market for LNG worldwide.  The global natural gas market underwent 
important changes after the onset of the Russia -Ukraine conflict last year, which led to an 
increase in infrastructure for liquefaction in the Middle East and the U .S., and for regasification 
in Europe. This has made LNG increasingly liquid, closer to becom ing a global commodity.   
LNG and biomethane are likely to offer energy security and flexi bility in a deficit market . 
The company expects demand i n the Brazilian market to continue to grow as a result of the 
expansion of the distribution pipeline networks, the ongoing opening of the free market, 
opportunities for biomethane and B2B LNG as decarbonization avenues, and an eventual return 
in demand from the dispatch of thermoelectric plant s. On the supply side, Petrobras remains very 
relevant for the market, but any significant increas e in supply from the pre -salt production is highly 
dependent on the implementation of flow and processing infrastructure that is complex and costly 
(as eviden ced by the delays in the Route 3 project). Moreover, the company believes that volumes 
from Bolivia will continue to decline, leading to a persistent deficit in the country’s natural gas 
balance in the short to m edium term. In this context, t here are oppor tunities in  biomethane and 
LNG to grow and balance the supply -and-demand  equation , offering energy safety and flexibility.   
Distribution : great opportunities to be captured from the replication of Comgás ’s 
successful model in Commit companies . Compass’s  distribution vertical aims to continue 
the expansion  strategy for Comgás and  replicate its successful business model in  Commit ’s 
distribution companies, where there is currently room to improve performance and catch  up with 
Comgás ’s efficiency le vels. In this vertical, the company will also focus on the conclu sion of  the 
dives tments in the Northeast distributors (expected by year-end), in accord ance with  Commit’s 
deal conditions,  and a potential participat ion in eventual  privatizations.   
Growth Opportunities in Distribution    
  
Source: Cosan    
Marketing & Services: optimizing long and short opportunities in natural gas, LNG and 
biomethane markets. The business is focus ed on originat ing natural gas from various sources  
– domestic production, imports from Bolivia, LNG and biomethane (initially through the JV with 
Orizon ) – and market ing it to final clients connected to the pipeline network (on -grid) and off-
grid B2B clients (small -scale LNG), maximizing long and short opportunities and benefiting from 
the flexibility  provided by the terminal . On the TRSP, the FSRU is ex pected to arrive at the 
terminal this month and start operations by late 2023. The company has stated that the ramp -
up strategy at the terminal will prioritize returns over volume maximization. Note that the 
contract with Total was signed before the war, s o its price is below current domestic prices , 
which could make Compass competitive in terms of pricing.    
 

 
 Cosan  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 3 
Moove    
Across geographies, f ully focused on lubricants  through organic and inorganic growth . The 
company aims to replicate its successful Brazilian model in the U .S. following the Petrochoice 
acquisition. Given t he valuable assets in North America and the established  relationship with 
stakeholders, management expects organic growth to be leveraged by the  use of the Moove 
Performance System , through a continuous improvement mindset . In Europe, the company is ready 
to take further steps to increase volumes in the region and is constantly evaluati ng inorganic growth  
opportunities .   
Cosan Investimentos    
A diversified portfolio, with key opportunities in mining and lands.  The Cosan Investimentos 
vertical has a current portfolio around  BRL 21 billion, encompassing Vale, land, São Luís Port and 
Fifth Wall.  Vale is the largest  investment , at BRL 17.4 billion, and the company continues to express 
optimism regarding the fundamentals  and investment milestones , which are according to plan. 
Management believes the actual value of the land portfolio is higher than  the fair value estimated 
by the third-party valuation, comparing the specifics of each land plot with nearby properties. In this 
segment, m anagement sees opportunities in  new crops, i rrigation  and leverage in partnerships , 
while the carbon market may be an invest ment  opportunity in the future . São Luís Port, a greenfield 
project announced in 2021, has evolved significantly since then, with the end of more than 260 land 
cases and the three remaining cases expected to be resolved soon. Next year , the company will 
determine whether or not to advance to the port construction phase.     
Holding    
The holding continues to support the best capital allocation decisions for the group’s 
companies, focus ing on execution and attracting and developing high -performance teams.  
Management believes  that all the companies in the portfolio  are currently mispriced  (particularly the 
holding ) and indicated that  it will prioritize Cosan’s share buybacks over new investments at this 
time. The c ompany , which  is already capitalized for the next debt payment tranche  related to  Vale 
(October 2024 ), noted that, although leverage capacity is c urrently fully used, Vale’s structure 
provides flexibility  because it can be easily adapted . Management also indicated the potential 
divest ment of  assets that have already reached maturity and in which they are not the best 
operators.    
 
  
 
 Cosan  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 4 
DISCLAIMER    
Itaú BBA is a registered trademark used by Itaú Unibanco S.A.   
Ratings: Definitions, Dispersion and Banking Relations    
Ratings (1) Definition (2) Coverage (3) Banking Relation (4) 
Outperform  The analyst expects the stock to perform better than 
market average.  62% 62% 
Market Perform  The analyst expects the stock to perform in line with 
market average.  31% 29% 
Underperform  The analyst expects the stock to perform below market 
average.  7% 7% 
   
1. The ratings employed in this document (Outperform, Market Perform, and Underperform) basically correspond to Purchase, 
Hold, and Sell, respectively.  
2. The ratings represent the analyst’s assessment of the medium -term share price performance relative to the market average. 
These ratings may be reviewed by the analyst based on new developments or simply due to variations in share prices (such 
changes may o ccur at any time). Companies are grouped into sectors, based on similar characteristics. Sectors: (i) Banks 
and Financial Services; (ii) Consumer Goods & Retail + Food & Beverage (iii) Healthcare + Education; (iv) Steel & Mining 
+ Pulp & Paper; (v) Oil, Ga s & Petrochemicals + Agribusiness; (vi) Real Estate & Construction; (vii) Telecommunications, 
Media and Technology; (viii) Transportation, Capital Goods and Logistics; (ix) Public Utility Services; and (x) Strategy.  
3. Percentage of companies covered by Itaú  Unibanco S.A. in this rating category.  
4. Percentage of companies included in this rating category that were provided services by Itaú Unibanco S.A. or any of its 
affiliated companies.    
Third -Party Disclosures    
Companies Mentioned  Ticker  Recent 
Price  Rec Disclosure Items  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
Cosan Sa  CSAN3  17.65 OP X     X      
   
1. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control rendered services, including investment 
services and investment banking services, to the company(ies) surveyed in this report over the previous 12 months, and/or 
effectively  received (or expect to receive) due compensation for such services over the previous 12 months.  
2. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control acted as a market -maker until the date 
on which this report was issued, ren dering services for the companies surveyed herein.  
3. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control hold securities of issuers surveyed in 
this report, in addition to substantial ownership of such issuers’ share capital.  
4. Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control, in the regular course of their business, 
(i) have granted and may eventually grant loans and/or (ii) render and may eventually render financial services to the issuer s 
surveyed in this report, as well as related persons, receiving due compensation for such.  
5. The issuers surveyed in this report, their subsidiaries, controllers and/or companies under common control hold substantial 
ownership of Itaú Unibanco, its subsidiaries,  controllers and/or companies under common control. (1) 
6. Itaú Unibanco owns a net long position exceeding 0.5 % of the total issued share capital of the issuer.  
7. Itaú Unibanco owns a net short position exceeding 0.5 % of the total issued share capital of the issuer.  
(1) Substantial ownership is defined as direct or indirect shareholding interest of over 5% (five percent) of any type or class o f stock representing the share 
capital of issuers surveyed in this report.    
Material Information    
1. This report was prepared by Itaú Unibanco, a company regulated by the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), and dist ributed by 
Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A. and Itaú BBA. Itaú BBA is a registered trademark used by Itaú Unibanco.  
2. This report does not constitute an offer to buy or sell any financial instrument or to participate in any particular trading st rategy under any jurisdiction. 
The information herein was deemed reasonable on the date of publication and was obtained from reliab le public sources. Neither Itaú Unibanco nor 
any of its affiliated companies (“Grupo Itaú Unibanco”) ensure or guarantee, either expressly or implicitly, that the informa tion contained herein is 
accurate or complete. Furthermore, this report is not a compl ete or summarized representation of investment strategies, markets or developments 
thereof. The opinions, estimates and/or forecasts provided in this report reflect the current opinion of the analyst responsi ble for the content herein on 
the date of public ation and are, therefore, subject to change without notice. The prices and availability of the financial instruments are mere ly indicative 
and subject to change beyond the control of Itaú Unibanco. The prices used for the production of this report were obt ained as of the close of the 
relevant market. Neither Itaú Unibanco nor any of its affiliated companies are obligated to update, amend or otherwise alter this report, or to inform 
readers of any changes in its content, except upon termination of coverage o f the securities issuers discussed herein.  
3. The analyst responsible for preparing this document, highlighted in bold, hereby certifies that all opinions expressed in thi s report 
accurately, solely and exclusively reflect his/her personal views and opinions regarding all of the issuers and securities analyzed herein, 
provided in this document independently and autonomously, including from Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora, Itaú BBA, and any of their 
affiliated companies. Whereas the personal opinions of the analy st may diverge, Itaú Unibanco, Itaú Corretora, Itaú BBA and/or any of their 
affiliated companies may have published or eventually publish other reports that are inconsistent and/or reach different conc lusions than 
those provided herein.  
4. The analyst respon sible for preparing this report is not registered and/or not qualified as a survey analyst at the NYSE or FINRA, nor is such analyst 
in any way associated with Ita ú BBA USA Securities, Inc. and is, therefore, not subject to the provisions of Rule 2242 on c ommunications with 
researched companies, public appearances and transactions involving securities held in a research analyst account.  
5. Part of the analysts’ compensation is determined based on the total top line of Itaú Unibanco and some of its affiliated companies, including revenues 
arising from investment services and investment bank services. Nonetheless, the analyst responsible for the content in this r eport hereby certifies 
that no part of his/her compensation is or will be directly or indirectly cond itioned to any specific recommendations or opinions herein.  
6. The financial instruments and strategies discussed in this document may not be suitable for all investors and certain investo rs may not be eligible to 
purchase or participate in some or all of the m. This report does not take under consideration the specific investment objectives, financial situation or 
needs of any particular investor. Investors who intend to purchase or trade the securities covered in this report must seek o ut the applicable infor mation 
and documents in order to decide whether to invest in such securities. Investors must independently seek out financial, accou nting, legal, economic 
and market guidance, based on their personal characteristics, before making any investment decision r egarding the securities of the issuers analyzed 
in this report. Each investor must make the final investment decision based on a range of related risks, fees and commissions . In the event that a 
financial instrument is expressed in currencies other than th e one used by the investor, exchange rate variations may adversely affect the price, value   
 
 Cosan  – September 12, 2023  
Itaú BBA | 5 
or profitability. Financial instrument yields may vary, ultimately increasing or decreasing the price or value of financial i nstruments, either directly or 
indirectl y. Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results, and this report does not ensure or guarantee, either exp ressly or implicitly, 
any possible future performance or any other aspect thereof. Itaú Unibanco and its affiliated companies may n ot be held liable for eventual losses, 
either direct or indirect, arising from the use of this report or its content. Upon using the content herein, investors under take to irrevocably and 
irreparably hold Itaú Unibanco and/or any of its affiliated companie s harmless against any claims, complaints, and/or losses.  
7. This report may not be reproduced or redistributed to third parties, either in whole or in part, for any reason whatsoever, w ithout prior written consent 
from Itaú Unibanco. This report and its cont ents are confidential.  
8. In accordance with the rules of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission, the analysts responsible for this report ha ve described scenarios 
of potential conflict of interest in the “Relevant Information” chart below.  
9. Itaú Unibanco is not party to a n agreement with the issuer(s) relating to the production of this report.  
10. The description of the internal organizational and administrative arrangements and of the information barriers in place for t he prevention and avoidance 
of conflicts of interest with  respect to the production of research reports are available at www.itaucorretora.com.br . 
11. Material information regarding the proprietary models used by Itaú Unibanco are avail able at Itaú BBA Bloomberg page.  
12. Other important regulatory information is available at https://disclosure -research.cloud.itau.com.br/home  
Additional note for reports distributed in the (i) United Kingdom: This material has been prepared by Itaú Unibanco S.A. for informational purposes 
only and it does not constitute or should be construed as a proposal for request to enter into any financial instrument or to participate in any specific 
business trading strategy. The financial instruments discussed in this material  may not be suitable for all investors and are directed  solely at Eligible 
Counterparties and Professional Clients, as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority. This material does n ot take into consideration the objectives, 
financial situation or specific needs of any particular client. Clients must independ ently obtain  financial, legal, tax, accounting, economic, credit, and 
market advice on an individual basis , based on their personal characteristics and objectives, prior to making any decision based on the information 
contained herein. By accessing this ma terial, you confirm that you are aware of the laws in your jurisdiction relating to  the provision and sale of 
financial service products. You acknowledge that this material contains proprietary information and you are required to keep this  information 
confidential . Itaú BBA International plc (IBBAInt) exempts itself from any liability  for any losses, whether  direct or indirect, which may arise from the 
use of this material and is under no obligation  to update the information contained in this material. Addi tionally, you confirm that you understand the 
risks related to the financial instruments discussed in this material . Due to international regulations, not all financial services/instruments may be 
available to all clients. You should be aware of and observe any such  restrictions when considering a potential investment decisions. Past 
performance and forecast are not  a reliable indicator of future results. The information  contained  herein has been  obtained from internal and external 
sources, and is believed to be reliable  as of the date in which this material was issued, however IBBAInt does not make any representation o r 
warranty as to the completeness, reliability or accuracy of  information obtained by third parties or public sources. Additional information  relative to 
the financial products discussed in this material is available upon request. Ita ú BBA International pl c has its registered offices at 100 Liverpool Street, 
Level 2, London, EC2M 2AT, United Kingdom, and is authori zed by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN 575225).  For any queries , please contact  your relationship manager; (ii) European 
Economic Area: this report is distributed in the EEA by Itaú BBA Europe, S.A. (“IBBA Europe”), an affiliate of Itaú Unibanco with registered offices 
at Rua Tierno Galvan, Torre III, 11 Piso, Lisbon, Portugal, authori zed as a credit institution by the Bank of Portugal (registration number 195), and 
as a financial intermediary by the Portuguese Securities Market Commission – CMVM (registration number 396). This material is informational  only 
and shall not be construed as a proposal to trade with financial instruments, nor any kind of personal recommendation of advi ce. This material is 
directed solely at Professional Clients and Eligible Counterparties (as defined by Article 4, 1, (10) an d Article 30 of Directive 2014/65/EU - MiFID II), 
who possess the experience, knowledge and expertise to make its own investment decisions and properly assess the risks that t hey incur. Relevant 
information regarding conflicts of interest contained in this  material apply to IBBA Europe as an affiliate of Itaú Unibanco. IBBA Europe does not 
exercise discretion as to the selection of the research reports to disseminate and exempts itself from any liability  for any losses, whether  direct or 
indirect, which may  arise from the use of this material and/or its content and has no obligation  to update the information contained in this material. 
The financial instruments/services discussed in this material may not be available to all clients and/or in their respective  jurisdictions. Additional 
information about the financial instruments discussed in this material are available upon request  (iii) USA:  Itaú BBA USA Securities, Inc., a FINRA 
registered Broker Dealer and an SIPC member , is responsible for distributing this report and the content herein. Any U.S. investor who receives this 
report and intends to trade any of the securities addressed herein must do so through Ita ú BBA USA Securities, Inc. at 540 Madison Avenue, 24th 
Floor, New York, NY 10022; (iv) Brazil:  Itaú Corretora de Valores S.A., a subsidiary of Itaú Unibanco S.A., is authorized by the Central Bank of 
Brazil and sanctioned by the CVM to distribute this report. Contact the Customer Service channel for more information: 4004 -3131* (capital  and 
metropolitan regions) or 0800 -722-3131 (other locations) during business hours (BRT). If additional service is required after contacting the 
aforementioned channels, contact: 0800 -570-0011 (business hours) or write to P.O. Box 67.600, São Paulo – SP, CEP (Postal Code) 03162 -971. 
*(Local costs apply .) 
Relevant Information – Analysts    
Analysts  Disclosure Items  Sig 
1 2 3 4 
Monique Greco      OK 
Bruna Amorim      OK 
Eric de Mello      OK 
   
1. The securities analyst(s) involved in preparing this report are associated with individuals who work for the issuers addressed herein.  
2. The securities analyst(s) spouse(s) or partner(s) hold, either directly or indirectly, on their o wn behalf or on behalf of third parties, stock and/or 
other securities discus sed in this report.  
3. The securities analyst(s), spouse(s) or partner(s) are directly or indirectly involved in the purchase, sale or intermediatio n of the securities 
discussed in this report.  
4. The securities analyst(s), respective spouse(s) or partner(s) hol d, either directly or indirectly, any financial interest related to the securities 
issuers analyzed in this report.    
 
 
 
 
