Latin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
J P M O R G A N 
www.jpmorganmarkets.com
Cosan S.A.
Key Takeaways from 2023 Investor Day Neutral
CSAN3.SA, CSAN3 BZ
Price  (12 Sep 23 ):R$17.84
LatAm Food & Beverages and 
Agribusiness
Lucas Ferreira AC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.com
Bloomberg  JPMA FERREIRA <GO>
Banco J.P. Morgan S.A.
Ulises Argote
(52-55) 5339-4834
ulises.argote@jpmorgan.com
J.P. Morgan Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., J.P. 
Morgan Grupo Financiero
Sebastian Hickman
(56-22) 425-5245
sebastian.hickman@jpmorgan.com
Banco J.P. Morgan S.A.Cosan just hosted its 2023 investor day. Despite volatility and uncertainty in the 
global geopolitical environment, Cosan sees opportunities for growth. The 
company is focused on (i) replicating Commit ’s playbook for Comgas, (ii) 
advancing E2G projects, (iii) capitalizing on positive price scenario for S&E, (iii) 
and recovering M&S margins, to name a few.  Overall, they are satisfied with their 
portfolio and its size and see themselves benefitting from energy transition and 
decarbonization. On the holding level, they remain committed to the capital 
allocation strategy, monitoring opportunities to buy back own shares and shares of 
the listed players of the group. Please see our notes below. For more details on 
Raízen (OW) please see our investor day notes here, for more details on Rumo 
(OW) please see Guilherme Mendes ’s note here. 
•Introductory Remarks - Cosan (Luis Henrique, CEO).  (1) Focus on 
Comgas, to grow in terms of profitability, replicating Commit ’s playbook, in 
addition to creating new M&S business. (2) In Rumo, aim to continue 
increasing capacity. (3) In Raizen, focus is to conclude E2G plants. Further, 
indicators show a record cane harvest, with biogas also seeing positive results. 
Also highlight commitment to recovery of results in M&S Brazil. (4) Moove 
USA is bringing comfort in their model, which should be replicated in Europe. 
(5) Consistent improvement in operational performance of the whole portfolio, 
with R$26bn in EBITDA under the Cosan umbrella. (6) Increased focus on 
capital allocation, as well as innovation with SAF, and new processes and 
technology.
•Compass  (Nelson Gomez, CEO). (1) War brought volatility to gas market, as 
well as changes to infrastructure with growing liquification of NG in the 
Middle East. LNG becoming more tradable, ensuring supply security and 
flexibility. (2) Demand should continue increasing given room for growth on 
distributors side and opening of a free market proportionating better 
competition. Further, demand for biomethane should be supported and the 
company aims to take off with LNG for B2B in 2025, with improved access to 
off-grid clients.  (3) From the supply side, PBR continues to be relevant, and 
investments in pre-salt volumes continue. Biomethane growing in relevance 
here as well, leading to increased offer of RNG. LNG continues of utmost 
importance bringing S-D balance and flexibility, guaranteeing gas supply in 
Brazil. (4) Establishing a new M&S segment to bring assurance, flexibility and 
decarbonization to clients both on and off-grid. Company aims to sell 5 
distributors it holds in the North East to bring greater focus on the Central South 
cluster. (5) See room for improvement in important KPI ’s which include, 
Residential Penetration, Share Margins, OPEX/Customer, and LTIF. Overall 
M&S sees 97 MM cbm/d NG equivalent potential demand. (6) Invested R$9bn 
over last 4 years, all done with robust and low leverage, generating EBITDA 
growth over the period, in which ~R$7bn distributed to shareholders.
•Moove (Filipe Affonso Ferreira, CEO). (1) V ocal on the complexity of the 
See page 4 for analyst certification and important disclosures, including non-US analyst disclosures.
J.P. Morgan does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that 
the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single 
factor in making their investment decision.
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
2Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
lubricants industry, as well as the excellence of Moove operations in each of the steps in 
its production chain. (2) Operation brings together ExxonMobil ’s know-how on 
lubricants production – a market that gained significant complexity during the past few 
years – with Cosan ’s management structure, cash availability and supply chain network 
(~70% of production costs are linked with raw materials), a combination that has 
consistently delivered results as  the company reached >R$1bn in revenues as of 1H23. 
(3) Positive effect from the integration and maturation of operations in Europe and North 
America, with a clear pipeline of investments to be followed – including organic and 
inorganic growth strategies. (4) Worth flagging that there is interest on IPO (no timing 
comments), with management mentioning the existence of a potential investor for the 
deal and not discarding the possibility of listing abroad. In the US, the operation has been 
evaluated by 4x its acquisition value (in dollar terms), with its brands holding ~3% market 
share in the region (vs 20% in Brazil).
•Raizen (Ricardo Mussa, CEO). (1) Productivity: 65% of sugarcane field already at 
potential; favorable climate conditions accelerate recovery. First cut and second cuts are 
seeing historical records for productivity, with this gap being closed for the remaining 
cuts as well. By end of the 23/24 harvest, will have 80% of cane collected. Productivity 
is 30% better than previous year YTD at 92 tons/ha. They estimate a minimum crushing 
of 80mnt, and highlight a monthly crushing record in July of 14mnt. The profile of the 
industry is changing with less volatility, and greater FCF generation. (2) Ethanol/E2G. 
Recently became 1st ethanol producer in the world receiving CORSIA Certification, and 
also 1st H2 station in the world using ethanol. New wave of demand for their product with 
better premium. Production at the Costa Pinto plant in 23/24 saw weekly production 
record (+6% vs. 2022/23 crop). Have five new E2G plants under construction, with 
capacity of each estimated at 82mn liters, with capex of R$1.2bn, with over +20% 
leveraged return. Inaugurating Bonfim plant in September, with capacity of 82kcbm/
yr. (3) Sugar: See prices stabilizing at structurally higher level amid India favoring 
ethanol and El Nino. Big investments this year and next year, 24/25 should allow high 
price capture, leading to cash and alleviation of BS. (4) Power:  Focusing on customer 
proximity, and expansion of commercialization with prudent risk management. Rapidly 
increasing client base with more than R$1bn of EBITDA in 22/23. (5) Mobility. See 
gradual recovery of profitability in BZ. Diesel prices had fallen 27 weeks in a row, with 
international price cheaper until June. Now, see the opposite with the imported product 
more expensive following PBR price change, supporting margins in 2H. Also cite 
removal of roughly R$1bn in financial expenses, and almost R$500mn in organizational 
costs. Maintain guidance of EBITDA to R$13.5-14.5mn for 23/24, R$13-14bn in Capex, 
and 1.8x leverage.
•Cosan Investments (Leo Pontes, CEO). (1) Currently see R$21bn of investments 
across current portfolio. Objective is to maximize management model, focus on relevant 
investments with optionality, evolution of portfolio. (2) Vale (R$17.4bn). See the 
investment as a liquid and irreplicable asset with low carbon mining, exposure to good 
demand and hard currency, with sound financial structure bringing good optionality. (3) 
Land. Roughly 900 properties, and a reference in management of agricultural properties 
in Brazil. 318,000 hectares of land in seven states. BRL 14.2 billion FMV , with high 
potential for appreciation (return of 25%). (4) Porto Sao Luis. Green field investment 
with 200ha of licensed area. Modular capacity of up to 115 million ton/year. Port project 
with capacity to operate ships of up to 400,000 DWT. Asset can operate with lots of 
flexibility which will come with demand. Cite lots of progress here, with decisive year 
ahead. (5) Fifth Wall. Climate Tech Fund with investment in early stage. Commitment to 
invest US$25mn. It ’s a small business, but idea is that they are on the technological 
frontier allowing them to learn. 
•Financial Management (Ricardo Lewin, CFO & IRO). (1) Diverse portfolio has 
proven resilient and has grown despite volatility, seeing growth with returns. For 
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
3Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
example, in Moove, even with 2019 ’s multiple very depressed, saw 20% return for Cosan. 
(2) Stable dividend distribution has allowed them to increase sources of liquidity for 
portfolio, which has been optimizing term and cost.
•Closing Remarks (Marcelo Martins, CSO) (1) Diversified and well leveraged 
portfolio enabling good risk management. (2) See comparative advantage through 
exposure to strong demand (domestically and internationally), hard currency, & sust. 
development. Also highlighted focus on continued remuneration to shareholders, and 
prioritization of buybacks given depressed valuations.  (3) Continue to look for 
alternatives when available. Want business growth based on optionality, management 
model based on a responsible print, with good risk management and execution.
•Q&A. Overall, the company highlighted that operations seem to be very discounted, 
especially when considering recent deliveries – which fulfilled all provided guidance -, 
and current leverage levels. Considering (1) Cash positioning,  management showed 
significant interest on a share buyback program and did not discarded divestment 
opportunities, although noting that this scenario demands attractive yields, finding key 
investors, and considering the maturity of the asset. One of the main topics discussed was 
(2) Rumo ’s Value Generation,  which was considered impressive given the past issues 
faced by this operation; volumes are expected to continue growing in this front, and 
should not reach a plateau until 2030. Worth flagging that management does not intend 
to proceed with a follow-on offer at this point . Regarding (3) Compass,  current low 
leverage levels open the room for the company to evaluate investment opportunities, 
although management noted that the focus remains on improving execution on recent 
investments. The main issue in this operation is represented by construction – considering 
the lack of specialized construction companies in the country – and the hire of workforce 
in recently launched plants. As for (4) Raízen,  the company has been holding 
conversations with US, and other Asian countries for expanding the export of E2G. 
Management highlighted that the increasing pressure from IRA and Green Deal groups 
in Europe read positively for the operation on the back of decarbonization efforts. Last, 
(5) Participation in Vale ’s Board  was considered positive by Cosan representatives, 
which noted positive read-through in terms of capital and human resources.
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
4Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
 Companies Discussed in This Report (all prices in this report as of market close on 12 September 2023, unless otherwise 
indicated)
Raizen(RAIZ4.SA/R$3.88/OW), Rumo(RAIL3.SA/R$22.76/OW) 
 Analyst Certification:  The Research Analyst(s) denoted by an “AC ” on the cover of this report certifies (or, where multiple Research Analysts 
are primarily responsible for this report, the Research Analyst denoted by an “AC ” on the cover or within the document individually certifies, 
with respect to each security or issuer that the Research Analyst covers in this research) that: (1) all of the views expressed in this report 
accurately reflect the Research Analyst ’s personal views about any and all of the subject securities or issuers; and (2) no part of any of the 
Research Analyst's compensation was, is, or will be directly or indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed by the 
Research Analyst(s) in this report. For all Korea-based Research Analysts listed on the front cover, if applicable, they also certify, as per KOFIA 
requirements, that the Research Analyst ’s analysis was made in good faith and that the views reflect the Research Analyst ’s own opinion, 
without undue influence or intervention.
 All authors named within this report are Research Analysts who produce independent research unless otherwise specified. In Europe, Sector 
Specialists (Sales and Trading) may be shown on this report as contacts but are not authors of the report or part of the Research Department.
 Pursuant to Brazilian regulation, the primary research analyst signing this report certifies that (1) all recommendations expressed herein by the 
research analyst reflect the analyst ’s sole and exclusive personal views and have been independently produced, including from the J.P. Morgan 
entity in which the research analyst is an employee; and (2) the research analyst responsible for or any research analyst involved in the 
preparation of this report will disclose herein any situation that impacts or that could impact the impartiality of the recommendations contained 
in this report or that constitutes or may constitute a conflict of interest.
Important Disclosures
Market Maker/ Liquidity Provider:  J.P. Morgan is a market maker and/or liquidity provider in the financial instruments of/related to Cosan 
S.A., Rumo, Raizen.
Client:  J.P. Morgan currently has, or had within the past 12 months, the following entity(ies) as clients: Cosan S.A., Rumo, Raizen.
Client/Investment Banking:  J.P. Morgan currently has, or had within the past 12 months, the following entity(ies) as investment banking 
clients: Cosan Ltd, a parent company of Cosan S.A..
Client/Non-Investment Banking, Securities-Related:  J.P. Morgan currently has, or had within the past 12 months, the following entity(ies) 
as clients, and the services provided were non-investment-banking, securities-related: Cosan S.A., Rumo, Raizen.
Client/Non-Securities-Related:  J.P. Morgan currently has, or had within the past 12 months, the following entity(ies) as clients, and the 
services provided were non-securities-related: Cosan S.A., Rumo, Raizen.
Investment Banking Compensation Received:  J.P. Morgan has received in the past 12 months compensation for investment banking services 
from Cosan Ltd, a parent company of Cosan S.A..
Potential Investment Banking Compensation:  J.P. Morgan expects to receive, or intends to seek, compensation for investment banking 
services in the next three months from Cosan Ltd, a parent company of Cosan S.A., Raizen.
Non-Investment Banking Compensation Received:  J.P. Morgan has received compensation in the past 12 months for products or services 
other than investment banking from Cosan S.A., Rumo, Raizen.
Debt Position:  J.P. Morgan may hold a position in the debt securities of Cosan S.A., Rumo, Raizen, if any.
 Company-Specific Disclosures: Important disclosures, including price charts and credit opinion history tables, are available for compendium 
reports and all J.P. Morgan–covered companies, and certain non-covered companies, by visiting https://www.jpmm.com/research/disclosures , 
calling 1-800-477-0406, or e-mailing  research.disclosure.inquiries@jpmorgan.com  with your request.
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
5Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
Date Rating Price (R$) Price Target 
(R$)
03-Jan-22 N 21.69 24.5
24-Mar-23 N 13.64 15
Date Rating Price (R$) Price Target 
(R$)
23-Nov-20 N 18.50 21.5
24-May-21 N 19.97 23.5
25-Aug-21 N 18.73 21.5
23-Nov-21 OW 16.86 21.5
14-Mar-22 OW 15.56 20
04-Apr-22 OW 19.00 20.5
11-May-22 OW 15.31 20
30-Aug-22 OW 20.09 24
26-Oct-22 OW 20.58 25
10-Apr-23 OW 18.66 24.5
11-May-23 OW 20.49 25
11-Jul-23 OW 22.20 26
31-Aug-23 OW 22.63 27.5
Date Rating Price (R$) Price Target 
(R$)
13-Sep-21 OW 6.50 9
03-Jan-22 OW 6.45 8.5
02-May-22 OW 6.90 8
28-Oct-22 OW 4.13 7.5
24-Mar-23 OW 2.26  -- 
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
6Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
The chart(s) show J.P. Morgan's continuing coverage of the stocks; the current analysts may or may not have covered it over the entire period. 
J.P. Morgan ratings or designations: OW = Overweight, N= Neutral, UW = Underweight, NR = Not Rated
Explanation of Equity Research Ratings, Designations and Analyst(s) Coverage Universe: 
J.P. Morgan uses the following rating system: Overweight [Over the next six to twelve months, we expect this stock will outperform the average 
total return of the stocks in the analyst ’s (or the analyst ’s team’s) coverage universe.] Neutral [Over the next six to twelve months, we expect this 
stock will perform in line with the average total return of the stocks in the analyst ’s (or the analyst ’s team’s) coverage universe.] Underweight 
[Over the next six to twelve months, we expect this stock will underperform the average total return of the stocks in the analyst ’s (or the 
analyst’s team’s) coverage universe.] Not Rated (NR): J.P. Morgan has removed the rating and, if applicable, the price target, for this stock 
because of either a lack of a sufficient fundamental basis or for legal, regulatory or policy reasons. The previous rating and, if applicable, the 
price target, no longer should be relied upon. An NR designation is not a recommendation or a rating. In our Asia (ex-Australia and ex-India) 
and U.K. small- and mid-cap equity research, each stock ’s expected total return is compared to the expected total return of a benchmark country 
market index, not to those analysts ’ coverage universe. If it does not appear in the Important Disclosures section of this report, the certifying 
analyst’s coverage universe can be found on J.P. Morgan ’s research website, https://www.jpmorganmarkets.com . 
Coverage Universe: Ferreira, Lucas : Adecoagro (AGRO), AmBev (ABEV3.SA), AmBev ADR (ABEV), Arca Continental (AC.MX), BRF 
ADR (BRFS), BRF SA (BRFS3.SA), CCU (CCU), CCU Local (CCU.SN), Camil (CAML3.SA), Coca Cola FEMSA Local (KOFUBL.MX), 
Coca-Cola Femsa (KOF), Cosan S.A. (CSAN3.SA), Embotelladora Andina Local B (ANDINAB.SN), Gruma (GRUMAB.MX), Grupo Bimbo 
(BIMBOA.MX), JBS (JBSS3.SA), M Dias Branco (MDIA3.SA), Marfrig (MRFG3.SA), Minerva SA (BEEF3.SA), Raizen (RAIZ4.SA), SLC 
Agricola (SLCE3.SA), SQM (SQM), Sao Martinho (SMTO3.SA)
J.P. Morgan Equity Research Ratings Distribution, as of July 08, 2023
Overweight
(buy)Neutral
(hold)Underweight
(sell)
J.P. Morgan Global Equity Research Coverage* 47% 39% 14%
    IB clients** 48% 45% 34%
JPMS Equity Research Coverage* 45% 42% 12%
    IB clients** 67% 64% 53%
*Please note that the percentages may not add to 100% because of rounding.
**Percentage of subject companies within each of the "buy," "hold" and "sell" categories for which J.P. Morgan has provided 
investment banking services within the previous 12 months. 
For purposes of FINRA ratings distribution rules only, our Overweight rating falls into a buy rating category; our Neutral rating falls 
into a hold rating category; and our Underweight rating falls into a sell rating category. Please note that stocks with an NR designation 
are not included in the table above. This information is current as of the end of the most recent calendar quarter.
 Equity Valuation and Risks:  For valuation methodology and risks associated with covered companies or price targets for covered companies, 
please see the most recent company-specific research report at  http://www.jpmorganmarkets.com , contact the primary analyst or your J.P. 
Morgan representative, or email research.disclosure.inquiries@jpmorgan.com . For material information about the proprietary models used, 
please see the Summary of Financials in company-specific research reports and the Company Tearsheets, which are available to download on 
the company pages of our client website,  http://www.jpmorganmarkets.com . This report also sets out within it the material underlying 
assumptions used.
 A history of J.P. Morgan investment recommendations disseminated during the preceding 12 months can be accessed on the Research & 
Commentary page of  http://www.jpmorganmarkets.com  where you can also search by analyst name, sector or financial instrument.
 Analysts' Compensation: The research analysts responsible for the preparation of this report receive compensation based upon various factors, 
including the quality and accuracy of research, client feedback, competitive factors, and overall firm revenues. 
 Registration of non-US Analysts: Unless otherwise noted, the non-US analysts listed on the front of this report are employees of non-US 
affiliates of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, may not be registered as research analysts under FINRA rules, may not be associated persons of J.P. 
Morgan Securities LLC, and may not be subject to FINRA Rule 2241 or 2242 restrictions on communications with covered companies, public 
appearances, and trading securities held by a research analyst account.
 Other Disclosures 
J.P. Morgan is a marketing name for investment banking businesses of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide.
UK MIFID FICC research unbundling exemption:  UK clients should refer to UK MIFID Research Unbundling exemption  for details of 
JPMorgan ’s implementation of the FICC research exemption and guidance on relevant FICC research categorisation. 
All research material made available to clients are simultaneously available on our client website, J.P. Morgan Markets, unless specifically 
permitted by relevant laws. Not all research content is redistributed, e-mailed or made available to third-party aggregators. For all research 
material available on a particular stock, please contact your sales representative.
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
7Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
Any long form nomenclature for references to China; Hong Kong; Taiwan; and Macau within this research material are Mainland China; Hong 
Kong SAR (China); Taiwan (China); and Macau SAR (China).
 J.P. Morgan Research may, from time to time, write on issuers or securities targeted by economic or financial sanctions imposed or administered 
by the governmental authorities of the U.S., EU, UK or other relevant jurisdictions (Sanctioned Securities). Nothing in this report is intended to 
be read or construed as encouraging, facilitating, promoting or otherwise approving investment or dealing in such Sanctioned Securities. Clients 
should be aware of their own legal and compliance obligations when making investment decisions. 
 Any digital or crypto assets discussed in this research report are subject to a rapidly changing regulatory landscape. For relevant regulatory 
advisories on crypto assets, including bitcoin and ether, please see https://www.jpmorgan.com/disclosures/cryptoasset-disclosure .
  The author(s) of this research report may not be licensed to carry on regulated activities in your jurisdiction and, if not licensed, do not hold 
themselves out as being able to do so. 
 Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs):  J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMS ”) acts as authorized participant for substantially all U.S.-listed ETFs. To 
the extent that any ETFs are mentioned in this report, JPMS may earn commissions and transaction-based compensation in connection with the 
distribution of those ETF shares and may earn fees for performing other trade-related services, such as securities lending to short sellers of the 
ETF shares. JPMS may also perform services for the ETFs themselves, including acting as a broker or dealer to the ETFs. In addition, affiliates 
of JPMS may perform services for the ETFs, including trust, custodial, administration, lending, index calculation and/or maintenance and other 
services. 
Options and Futures related research:  If the information contained herein regards options- or futures-related research, such information is 
available only to persons who have received the proper options or futures risk disclosure documents. Please contact your J.P. Morgan 
Representative or visit https://www.theocc.com/components/docs/riskstoc.pdf  for a copy of the Option Clearing Corporation's Characteristics 
and Risks of Standardized Options or http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Security_Futures_Risk_Disclosure_Statement_2018.pdf  for a copy 
of the Security Futures Risk Disclosure Statement. 
Changes to Interbank Offered Rates (IBORs) and other benchmark rates:  Certain interest rate benchmarks are, or may in the future 
become, subject to ongoing international, national and other regulatory guidance, reform and proposals for reform. For more information, please 
consult: https://www.jpmorgan.com/global/disclosures/interbank_offered_rates
Private Bank Clients: Where you are receiving research as a client of the private banking businesses offered by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its 
subsidiaries (“J.P. Morgan Private Bank ”), research is provided to you by J.P. Morgan Private Bank and not by any other division of J.P. Morgan, 
including, but not limited to, the J.P. Morgan Corporate and Investment Bank and its Global Research division.
Legal entity responsible for the production and distribution of research:  The legal entity identified below the name of the Reg AC Research 
Analyst who authored this material is the legal entity responsible for the production of this research. Where multiple Reg AC Research Analysts 
authored this material with different legal entities identified below their names, these legal entities are jointly responsible for the production of 
this research. Research Analysts from various J.P. Morgan affiliates may have contributed to the production of this material but may not be 
licensed to carry out regulated activities in your jurisdiction (and do not hold themselves out as being able to do so). Unless otherwise stated 
below, this material has been distributed by the legal entity responsible for production. If you have any queries, please contact the relevant 
Research Analyst in your jurisdiction or the entity in your jurisdiction that has distributed this research material.
Legal Entities Disclosures and Country-/Region-Specific Disclosures:
 Argentina:  JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A Sucursal Buenos Aires is regulated by Banco Central de la República Argentina (“BCRA ”- Central 
Bank of Argentina) and Comisión Nacional de Valores (“CNV ”- Argentinian Securities Commission ” - ALYC y AN Integral N°51). Australia:  
J.P. Morgan Securities Australia Limited (“JPMSAL ”) (ABN 61 003 245 234/AFS Licence No: 238066) is regulated by the Australian 
Securities and Investments Commission and is a Market, Clearing and Settlement Participant of ASX Limited and CHI-X. This material is 
issued and distributed in Australia by or on behalf of JPMSAL only to "wholesale clients" (as defined in section 761G of the Corporations Act 
2001). A list of all financial products covered can be found by visiting https://www.jpmm.com/research/disclosures . J.P. Morgan seeks to cover 
companies of relevance to the domestic and international investor base across all Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS) sectors, as well 
as across a range of market capitalisation sizes. If applicable, in the course of conducting public side due diligence on the subject company(ies), 
the Research Analyst team may at times perform such diligence through corporate engagements such as site visits, discussions with company 
representatives, management presentations, etc. Research issued by JPMSAL has been prepared in accordance with J.P. Morgan Australia ’s 
Research Independence Policy which can be found at the following link: J.P. Morgan Australia - Research Independence Policy . Brazil : Banco 
J.P. Morgan S.A. is regulated by the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil. Ombudsman J.P. Morgan: 
0800-7700847 / ouvidoria.jp.morgan@jpmorgan.com . Canada : J.P. Morgan Securities Canada Inc. is a registered investment dealer, regulated 
by the Canadian Investment Regulatory Organization and the Ontario Securities Commission and is the participating member on Canadian 
exchanges. This material is distributed in Canada by or on behalf of J.P.Morgan Securities Canada Inc. Chile:  Inversiones J.P. Morgan Limitada 
is an unregulated entity incorporated in Chile. China:  J.P. Morgan Securities (China) Company Limited has been approved by CSRC to conduct 
the securities investment consultancy business. Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) : JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Dubai Branch is 
regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (DFSA) and its registered address is Dubai International Financial Centre - The Gate, West 
Wing, Level 3 and 9 PO Box 506551, Dubai, UAE. This material has been distributed by JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Dubai Branch to 
persons regarded as professional clients or market counterparties as defined under the DFSA rules. European Economic Area (EEA):  Unless 
specified to the contrary, research is distributed in the EEA by J.P. Morgan SE (“JPM SE ”), which is subject to prudential supervision by the 
European Central Bank (“ECB ”) in cooperation with BaFin and Deutsche Bundesbank in Germany. JPM SE is a company headquartered in 
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
8Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
Frankfurt with registered address at TaunusTurm, Taunustor 1, Frankfurt am Main, 60310, Germany. The material has been distributed in the 
EEA to persons regarded as professional investors (or equivalent) pursuant to Art. 4 para. 1 no. 10 and Annex II of MiFID II and its respective 
implementation in their home jurisdictions (“EEA professional investors ”). This material must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are 
not EEA professional investors. Any investment or investment activity to which this material relates is only available to EEA relevant persons 
and will be engaged in only with EEA relevant persons. Hong Kong : J.P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited (CE number AAJ321) is 
regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, and J.P. Morgan Broking (Hong 
Kong) Limited (CE number AAB027) is regulated by the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., 
Hong Kong Branch (CE Number AAL996) is regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Securities and Futures Commission, is 
organized under the laws of the United States with limited liability. Where the distribution of this material is a regulated activity in Hong Kong, 
the material is distributed in Hong Kong by or through J.P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific) Limited and/or J.P. Morgan Broking (Hong Kong) 
Limited. India : J.P. Morgan India Private Limited (Corporate Identity Number - U67120MH1992FTC068724), having its registered office at 
J.P. Morgan Tower, Off. C.S.T. Road, Kalina, Santacruz - East, Mumbai – 400098, is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) as a ‘Research Analyst ’ having registration number INH000001873. J.P. Morgan India Private Limited is also registered with SEBI as a 
member of the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (SEBI Registration Number – 
INZ000239730) and as a Merchant Banker (SEBI Registration Number - MB/INM000002970). Telephone: 91-22-6157 3000, Facsimile: 91-22-
6157 3990 and Website: http://www.jpmipl.com . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. - Mumbai Branch is licensed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
(Licence No. 53/ Licence No. BY .4/94; SEBI - IN/CUS/014/ CDSL : IN-DP-CDSL-444-2008/ IN-DP-NSDL-285-2008/ INBI00000984/ 
INE231311239) as a Scheduled Commercial Bank in India, which is its primary license allowing it to carry on Banking business in India and 
other activities, which a Bank branch in India are permitted to undertake. For non-local research material, this material is not distributed in India 
by J.P. Morgan India Private Limited. Compliance Officer: Spurthi Gadamsetty; spurthi.gadamsetty@jpmchase.com ; +912261573225. 
Grievance Officer: Ramprasadh K, jpmipl.research.feedback@jpmorgan.com ; +912261573000. 
Investment in securities market are subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before investing. Registration 
granted by SEBI and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or provide any assurance of 
returns to investors.
Indonesia : PT J.P. Morgan Sekuritas Indonesia is a member of the Indonesia Stock Exchange and is registered and supervised by the Otoritas 
Jasa Keuangan (OJK). Korea : J.P. Morgan Securities (Far East) Limited, Seoul Branch, is a member of the Korea Exchange (KRX). JPMorgan 
Chase Bank, N.A., Seoul Branch, is licensed as a branch office of foreign bank (JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.) in Korea. Both entities are 
regulated by the Financial Services Commission (FSC) and the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS). For non-macro research material, the 
material is distributed in Korea by or through J.P. Morgan Securities (Far East) Limited, Seoul Branch. Japan : JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., 
Ltd. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Tokyo Branch are regulated by the Financial Services Agency in Japan. Malaysia : This material is issued 
and distributed in Malaysia by JPMorgan Securities (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (18146-X), which is a Participating Organization of Bursa Malaysia 
Berhad and holds a Capital Markets Services License issued by the Securities Commission in Malaysia. Mexico : J.P. Morgan Casa de Bolsa, 
S.A. de C.V .and J.P. Morgan Grupo Financiero are members of the Mexican Stock Exchange and are authorized to act as a broker dealer by the 
National Banking and Securities Exchange Commission. New Zealand : This material is issued and distributed by JPMSAL in New Zealand 
only to "wholesale clients" (as defined in the Financial Markets Conduct Act 2013). JPMSAL is registered as a Financial Service Provider under 
the Financial Service providers (Registration and Dispute Resolution) Act of 2008. Pakistan : J. P. Morgan Pakistan Broking (Pvt.) Ltd is a 
member of the Karachi Stock Exchange and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. Philippines : J.P. Morgan 
Securities Philippines Inc. is a Trading Participant of the Philippine Stock Exchange and a member of the Securities Clearing Corporation of the 
Philippines and the Securities Investor Protection Fund. It is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Russia : CB J.P. Morgan 
Bank International LLC is regulated by the Central Bank of Russia. Singapore : This material is issued and distributed in Singapore by or 
through J.P. Morgan Securities Singapore Private Limited (JPMSS) [MCI (P) 030/08/2023 and Co. Reg. No.: 199405335R], which is a member 
of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited, and/or JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Singapore branch (JPMCB Singapore), both of 
which are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. This material is issued and distributed in Singapore only to accredited investors, 
expert investors and institutional investors, as defined in Section 4A of the Securities and Futures Act, Cap. 289 (SFA). This material is not 
intended to be issued or distributed to any retail investors or any other investors that do not fall into the classes of “accredited investors, ” “expert 
investors” or “institutional investors, ” as defined under Section 4A of the SFA. Recipients of this material in Singapore are to contact JPMSS or 
JPMCB Singapore in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, the material. As at the date of this material, JPMSS is a 
designated market maker for certain structured warrants listed on the Singapore Exchange where the underlying securities may be the securities 
discussed in this material. Arising from its role as a designated market maker for such structured warrants, JPMSS may conduct hedging 
activities in respect of such underlying securities and hold or have an interest in such underlying securities as a result. The updated list of 
structured warrants for which JPMSS acts as designated market maker may be found on the website of the Singapore Exchange Limited: 
http://www.sgx.com . South Africa : J.P. Morgan Equities South Africa Proprietary Limited and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Johannesburg 
Branch are members of the Johannesburg Securities Exchange and are regulated by the Financial Services Board. Taiwan : J.P. Morgan 
Securities (Taiwan) Limited is a participant of the Taiwan Stock Exchange (company-type) and regulated by the Taiwan Securities and Futures 
Bureau. Material relating to equity securities is issued and distributed in Taiwan by J.P. Morgan Securities (Taiwan) Limited, subject to the 
license scope and the applicable laws and the regulations in Taiwan. According to Paragraph 2, Article 7-1 of Operational Regulations 
Governing Securities Firms Recommending Trades in Securities to Customers (as amended or supplemented) and/or other applicable laws or 
regulations, please note that the recipient of this material is not permitted to engage in any activities in connection with the material that may 
give rise to conflicts of interests, unless otherwise disclosed in the “Important Disclosures ” in this material. Thailand : This material is issued 
and distributed in Thailand by JPMorgan Securities (Thailand) Ltd., which is a member of the Stock Exchange of Thailand and is regulated by 
the Ministry of Finance and the Securities and Exchange Commission, and its registered address is 3rd Floor, 20 North Sathorn Road, Silom, 
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
9Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
Bangrak, Bangkok 10500. UK: Unless specified to the contrary, research is distributed in the UK by J.P. Morgan Securities plc (“JPMS plc ”) 
which is a member of the London Stock Exchange and is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. JPMS plc is registered in England & Wales No. 2711006, Registered Office 25 
Bank Street, London, E14 5JP. This material is directed in the UK only to: (a) persons having professional experience in matters relating to 
investments falling within article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) (Order) 2005 (“the FPO ”); (b) 
persons outlined in article 49 of the FPO (high net worth companies, unincorporated associations or partnerships, the trustees of high value 
trusts, etc.); or (c) any persons to whom this communication may otherwise lawfully be made; all such persons being referred to as "UK relevant 
persons". This material must not be acted on or relied on by persons who are not UK relevant persons. Any investment or investment activity to 
which this material relates is only available to UK relevant persons and will be engaged in only with UK relevant persons. Research issued by 
JPMS plc has been prepared in accordance with JPMS plc's policy for prevention and avoidance of conflicts of interest related to the production 
of Research which can be found at the following link: J.P. Morgan EMEA - Research Independence Policy . U.S.: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 
(“JPMS”) is a member of the NYSE, FINRA, SIPC, and the NFA. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is a member of the FDIC. Material published by 
non-U.S. affiliates is distributed in the U.S. by JPMS who accepts responsibility for its content.
General: Additional information is available upon request. The information in this material has been obtained from sources believed to be 
reliable. While all reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the facts stated in this material are accurate and that the forecasts, opinions and 
expectations contained herein are fair and reasonable, JPMorgan Chase & Co. or its affiliates and/or subsidiaries (collectively J.P. Morgan) make 
no representations or warranties whatsoever to the completeness or accuracy of the material provided, except with respect to any disclosures 
relative to J.P. Morgan and the Research Analyst's involvement with the issuer that is the subject of the material. Accordingly, no reliance should 
be placed on the accuracy, fairness or completeness of the information contained in this material. There may be certain discrepancies with data 
and/or limited content in this material as a result of calculations, adjustments, translations to different languages, and/or local regulatory 
restrictions, as applicable. These discrepancies should not impact the overall investment analysis, views and/or recommendations of the subject 
company(ies) that may be discussed in the material. J.P. Morgan accepts no liability whatsoever for any loss arising from any use of this material 
or its contents, and neither J.P. Morgan nor any of its respective directors, officers or employees, shall be in any way responsible for the contents 
hereof, apart from the liabilities and responsibilities that may be imposed on them by the relevant regulatory authority in the jurisdiction in 
question, or the regulatory regime thereunder. Opinions, forecasts or projections contained in this material represent J.P. Morgan's current 
opinions or judgment as of the date of the material only and are therefore subject to change without notice. Periodic updates may be provided on 
companies/industries based on company-specific developments or announcements, market conditions or any other publicly available 
information. There can be no assurance that future results or events will be consistent with any such opinions, forecasts or projections, which 
represent only one possible outcome. Furthermore, such opinions, forecasts or projections are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and 
assumptions that have not been verified, and future actual results or events could differ materially. The value of, or income from, any 
investments referred to in this material may fluctuate and/or be affected by changes in exchange rates. All pricing is indicative as of the close of 
market for the securities discussed, unless otherwise stated. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Accordingly, investors may 
receive back less than originally invested. This material is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial 
instrument. The opinions and recommendations herein do not take into account individual client circumstances, objectives, or needs and are not 
intended as recommendations of particular securities, financial instruments or strategies to particular clients. This material may include views on 
structured securities, options, futures and other derivatives. These are complex instruments, may involve a high degree of risk and may be 
appropriate investments only for sophisticated investors who are capable of understanding and assuming the risks involved. The recipients of 
this material must make their own independent decisions regarding any securities or financial instruments mentioned herein and should seek 
advice from such independent financial, legal, tax or other adviser as they deem necessary. J.P. Morgan may trade as a principal on the basis of 
the Research Analysts ’ views and research, and it may also engage in transactions for its own account or for its clients ’ accounts in a manner 
inconsistent with the views taken in this material, and J.P. Morgan is under no obligation to ensure that such other communication is brought to 
the attention of any recipient of this material. Others within J.P. Morgan, including Strategists, Sales staff and other Research Analysts, may take 
views that are inconsistent with those taken in this material. Employees of J.P. Morgan not involved in the preparation of this material may have 
investments in the securities (or derivatives of such securities) mentioned in this material and may trade them in ways different from those 
discussed in this material. This material is not an advertisement for or marketing of any issuer, its products or services, or its securities in any 
jurisdiction.
Confidentiality and Security Notice : This transmission may contain information that is privileged, confidential, legally privileged, and/or 
exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, 
distribution, or use of the information contained herein (including any reliance thereon) is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. Although this 
transmission and any attachments are believed to be free of any virus or other defect that might affect any computer system into which it is 
received and opened, it is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure that it is virus free and no responsibility is accepted by JPMorgan Chase & 
Co., its subsidiaries and affiliates, as applicable, for any loss or damage arising in any way from its use. If you received this transmission in 
error, please immediately contact the sender and destroy the material in its entirety, whether in electronic or hard copy format. This message is 
subject to electronic monitoring: https://www.jpmorgan.com/disclosures/email
MSCI: Certain information herein (“Information ”) is reproduced by permission of MSCI Inc., its affiliates and information providers (“MSCI ”) 
©2023. No reproduction or dissemination of the Information is permitted without an appropriate license. MSCI MAKES NO EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES (INCLUDING MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS) AS TO THE INFORMATION AND DISCLAIMS ALL 
LIABILITY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. No Information constitutes investment advice, except for any applicable Information 
from MSCI ESG Research. Subject also to msci.com/disclaimer
"Other Disclosures" last revised August 05, 2023. 
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
10Lucas FerreiraAC
(55-11) 4950-3629
lucas.x.ferreira@jpmorgan.comLatin America Equity Research
12 September 2023
 J P M O R G A N 
Copyright 2023 JPMorgan Chase & Co. All rights reserved. This material or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J.P. Morgan. #$J&098$#*P
Completed 12 Sep 2023 07:08 PM EDT Disseminated 12 Sep 2023 07:08 PM EDT
This document is being provided for the exclusive use of paula.macedo@cosan.com.
{[{cHXdtoTfeLlLJHcF94QgILu07NDYh3egVCVfOZnGb9yUWPmhCRJwwqomml8421WU}]}
