1Equity Research: Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
Cosan  (CSAN3) | Buy; TP R$ 31.80/ shOil, Gas & Petrochemicals
During  Cosan  Investor  Day, management  reinforced  the current  portfolio  is ideal  in terms  of size and 
composition . Leverage  will always  be a point  of attention,  but the situation  is more  comfortable  now . Cosan  
is moving  towards  the end of this growth  capex  cycle  (with  only Raízen  and Rumo  still near  peak),  thus  
reducing  execution  risk and opening  room  for more  cash  generation  (and  dividend  payments) . Management  
also  believes  the stocks  from  the holding  and the listed  investees  are trading  at “low  multiples”  and the 
buyback  of shares  is one of the best  uses  of capital . Any equity  offering  (citing  specific  examples  of Rumo,  
Compass,  and Moove ) should  not take  place  at this level  of valuation .
Today  (12th), Cosan  held  its Investor  Day 2023 . Cosan’s  CEO,  Luis 
Henrique  Guimarães,  began  the event  by reinforcing  that the 
current  portfolio  is well positioned  in the most  strategic  and of 
greater  potential  sectors  in Brazil  and is ideal  in terms  of size and 
composition . From  now  on, the focus  should  be on execution . 
Leverage  will always  be a point  of attention,  but some  variables  have  
changed . Since  the announcement  of Vale's  deal,  leverage  has been  
a major  concern . However,  in the past  months,  many  variables  have  
changed  both  at the micro  and macro  levels . New  debt  emission  
from  the holding  removed  liquidity  concerns,  the group  is selling  
some  non-core  assets  in each  investee  (for instance,  Compass  
selling  northeast  LDCs)  and Brazil  is cutting  interest  rates .  
According  to Mr. Guimaraes,  Cosan  is moving  towards  the end of 
this growth  capex  cycle  (with  only Raízen  and Rumo  still near  peak),  
thus  reducing  execution  risk and opening  room  for more  cash  
generation  (and  dividend  payments) . The group  had the challenging  
task  of completing  complex,  capital -intensive  projects,  being  
exposed  to civil construction  risk, in an environment  of shortage  of 
suppliers  in Brazil .. 
The market  doesn't  give Cosan  the benefit  of the doubt . Mr. Marcelo  
Martins,  Cosan’s  CSO,  argued  that the group's  deliveries  in the last 
years  were  extremely  relevant,  but the market  is not pricing  in this 
execution  capability,  leading  the stocks  from  the holding  and the 
listed  investees  to trade  at “low  multiples” . Mr. Martins  reinforced  
that the companies  don’t  need  to access  the equity  market  to fund  
their  growth  needs  (citing  specific  examples  of Rumo,  Compass,  
and Moove ) therefore  the Cosan  does  not want  to generate  a 
dilution  at low prices . According  to Mr. Martins,  at these  prices,  he 
believes  that the buyback  of shares  is one of the best  uses  of 
capital .
Source: Economática , XP ResearchSeptember 13, 2023
André Vidal
Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
andre .vidal@xpi .com .br
Helena Kelm
Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
helena .kelm@xpi .com .br
Performance vs. IBOVCosan Day 2023 Main Take awaysThe big capex cycle is near the end
Cosan  (CSAN3) Buy
Target Price (R$/ sh) R$ 31.80
Current Price (R$/ sh) R$ 17.84
Upside (%) 78%
Market Cap (R$ million) 33,301
# of shares (million) 1,867
Free Float (%) 64%
ADTV (R$ million)106
507090110130
Dec-21 Jun-22 Dec-22 Jun-23IBOV CSAN3
2Equity Research: Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
The partnership  model  was a recurring  theme . The company  has a partnership  model  never  before  
implemented  in the industrial  sector .  Among  other  goals,  the model  intends  to create  a structured  plan  of 
succession  and promote  common  goals  between  the management  of all moving  parts,  with  a focus  on 
capital  allocation,  risk management,  and people  development . All partners  have  a relevant  share  of their  
assets  exposed  to the Cosan’s  risk, with  long -term  vesting  periods,  to ensure  alignment .
Cosan  Investmentos  focused  in Mining  and Land . According  to Mr. Leo Pontes,  Cosan  Investimentos’s  CEO,  
land  management  is a good  example  of how  the holding  can generate  value  rotation  in its portfolio . Mr. 
Pontes  also  gave  an update  on the São Luis Port  project : modular  execution  remains  the plan  and the MoU  
with  Paulo  Brito  is still valid . The project  is advancing  to be ready  for a final  decision  to start  construction  in 
the next  year . Finally,  the investment  in Vale’s  remained  in the spotlight . Cosan’s  management  reinforced  
that the assumptions  for the investment  decision  didn’t  change . Vale  is a good  dividend  payer,  exposed  to 
hard  currency,  and has great  potential  towards  the energy  transition  trend . The optionality  they  built  was 
intended  to give them  time  to confirm  these  premises  (albeit  it is too early  to have  a final  decision)  as well as 
to exploit  opportunities  (as they  recently  did, unwinding  some  of the collars) .
In XP’s  ESG team’s  opinion,  the event  revealed  Cosan’s  success  in deploying  a robust  ESG strategy  across  the 
portfolio  while  achieving  milestones  itself . Key ESG  themes  discussed  for each  subsidiary : (i) Rumo : Leading  
railway  safety ; (ii) Raízen : Paving  the way to reshape  the future  of energy ; (iii) Compass : Exploring  
biomethane ; (iv) Moove : Seeking  to reduce  emissions ; and (v) Cosan  Investimentos : Capital  allocation  into 
cutting -edge  technologies  (note  here ).
Moove  has become  a benchmark  for transformation  and growth  among  Cosan's  assets . Moove  management  
reinforced  that they  are quite  pleased  with  how  Moove  USA  (former  Petrochoice ) integration  is working . The 
company  has developed  a model  focused  on continuous  improvement  and a replicable  management  
system . They  are investing  in information  systems  for new  acquisitions  to be more  easily  integrated . In the 
past  years,  organic  growth  has been  beyond  30% CAGR,  despite  an environment  of nearly  zero  volume  
growth  for the addressable  market . Albeit  the size that Moove  currently  has (EBITDA  LTM  over  R$ 1 billion)  
puts  a challenge  to keep  growing  at this same  rate for the next  years,  there  are still efficiency  gains  to benefit  
from,  and market  share  remains  low in North  America  (3%) and countries  in Europe  that Moove  operates  
(5%). The “old continent”  is one of the focuses  for a new  potential  M&A,  allowing  Europe  to reach  volume  
sizes  more  in line with  LatAm  and North  America  operations .
Compass  “2.0 phase”  is over,  is time  to reap  its benefits . With  the SP Regasification  terminal  (“TRSP”)  near  its 
start -up, Compass'  latest  growth  cycle  is complete  and the focus  now  is on execution,  with  three  clear  
avenues : (i) continue  Comgás  long -term  successful  history ; (ii) replicate  Comgás  model  in the LDCs  from  
South -Center  States  (potential  opportunities  from  privation  in this States  may  arise),  and; (iii) to develop  the 
Marketings  & Services  new business . Compass  seeks  to benefit  from  the flexibility  arising  from  TRSP  and 
the supply  contract  it has with  TotalEnergies , as well as decarbonization  benefits  from  biomethane,  to 
develop  a new range  of clients,  both  on and off-grid (B2B LNG) . Compass  estimates  a total  addressable  
market  of ~100MM m3/d from  diesel,  fuel oil, and LPG  substitution  that could  be reached  from  TRSP  small -
scale  B2B LNG : even  a small  amount  of share  (1%) could  lead  to significant  volumes  (~1MM m3/d). 
Compass  will develop  the necessary  infrastructure  throughout  2024  for B2B LNG  to start  in 2025 .Cosan Day 2023 Main Take Always 
The big capex cycle is near the endSeptember 13, 2023
3Equity Research: Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
According  to Xp’s  Transportation  team,  for Rumo,  the main  highlights  were : (i) reduced  security  concerns , as 
1Q23 operational  issues  are now  under  control ; (ii)positive  pricing  prospects  for 2024  as the competitive  
scenario  remains  constructive ; (iii)solid  pipeline  of projects  to improve  capacity  in the overall  railway  
system ; (iv)strong  capital  discipline  (a follow -on transaction  is ruled  out for now),  and (v) updated  view  on 
key regulatory  themes . (note  here ).
Raízen’s strategy  proving  assertive  with results  rebounding  in 2Q24. According toXP’s Agri,  F&B team,  
Raizen’s main  takeaway  was management’s  mea -culpa  regarding  the fuel supply  strategy  in 1Q24 (focusing  
on PBR’s  supply),  which  led to poor  results  as Raízen  became  less competitive  vs. import  prices . However,  
management  reinforced  that this strategy  is proving  assertive  as the market  conditions  turned,  which  
should  lead  to improving  results  in the 2Q (the main  reason  why the company  sustained  its 23/24 
guidance) . Recovering  Mobility  results  reinforce  the team  view  that the outlook  is improving,  but they  remain  
cautiously  optimistic  as we should  not see an overshoot  in margins  yet, while  a better  Sugar  outlook  (prices,  
yields,  and costs)  is yet to be reflected  and poor  Ethanol  margins  should  drag  results  (note  here ).
Our take : This  year's  event  was a unique  way to have  a better  view  of the growth  optionalities  embedded  into 
Cosan’s  investment  case,  something  we think  the market  is not paying  enough  attention  to. We agree  with  
Mr. Martins  that both  the holding  and the listed  investees  look  cheap  now . On this front,  we would  like to 
highlight  that the holding  discount  may  appear  historically  low now  if we assume  the “market  value”  for 
Compass  as the last private  placement  (~R$ 20 billion  for 100%). However,  since  the beginning  of July,  
when  speculations  of a potential  IPO for Compass  gained  traction,  we think  the market  has started  to price  
the value  of this company  more  in the range  of R$ 25 billion .
.... But we think the market started to assign a valuation more in line with R$ 25 billion since July
Cosan  HD appears low if one assumes the last private placement as a valuation measure for Compass ....Cosan  Day 2023 Main Take Always 
The big capex cycle is near the end
Source : Cosan, Refinitiv LSEG and XP ResearchSeptember 13, 2023

4Equity Research: Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals
Disclaimer
1) This report was prepared by XP Investimentos CCTVM S.A. ("XP Investimentos or XP") according to the requirements provided in CVM Resolution 
20/2021 and aims to provide information that can help the investors make their own investment decisions, and does not constit ute any kind of offer or 
purchase request and/or sale of any product. The information contained in this report is considered valid on the date of disc losure and has been obtained 
from public sources. XP Investimentos is not liable for any decisions made by the customer based on this report.     
2) This report was prepared considering the product risk classification in order to generate allocation results for each inve stor profile.   
 
3) All of the views expressed in this research report accurately reflect the research analyst’s personal views regarding any and all of the subject securiTiês  
or issuers.  No part of analyst(s) compensation was, is or will be, directly or indirectly related to the specific recommenda tions or views expressed in this 
research report.
4) The signatory of this report declare that the recommendations reflect solely and exclusively their personal analyses and o pinions, which have been 
produced independently, including in relation to XP Investimentos and which are subject to modifications without notice due t o changes in market 
conditions, and that their remuneration are indirectly affected by revenue from business and financial transactions carried o ut by XP Investimentos.  
   
5) The analyst responsible for the content of this report and the compliance with CVM Resolution 20/2021 is indicated above, and, in the event of an 
indication of another analyst in the report, the person responsible will be the first accredited analyst to be mentioned in R eport.    
 
6) XP Investimentos’ analysts are obligated to comply with all the rules laid down in the APIMEC’s conduct code for the securiTiês  analyst and XP 
Investimentos’ analyst of securiTiês  conduct policy.     
7) Customer service is carried out by XP Investimentos employees or by autonomous investment agents who perform their activiTiês  through XP, in 
accordance with CVM Resolution 16/2021, which are registered in the national association of brokers and distributors of securiTiês  (“ANCORD”). The 
autonomous agent of investment may not provide consulting, administration or management of customer net worth, and must act a s an intermediary and 
request prior authorization from the client for the realization of any operation in the capital market.     
8) The products presented in this report may not be suitable for all types of customer. Before making any decisions, customer s should ensure that the 
products presented are suitable for their investor profile. This material does not suggest any change of portfolio, but only guidance on products suitable to 
a certain investor profile.   
9) The profitability of financial products may present variations and their price or value may increase or decrease in a shor t period of time. Past 
performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. Performance disclosed is not net of any applicable taxes. The in formation present in this 
material is based on simulations and the actual results may be significantly different.     
10) This report is intended exclusively for to the XP Investimentos’ network, including independent XP agents and XP customer s, and may also be released 
on XP’s website. It is prohibited to reproduce or redistribute this report to any person, in whole or in part, whatever the p urpose, without the prior express 
consent of XP Investimentos.   
11) XP Investimentos’ ombudsman has the mission to serve as a contact channel whenever customers who do not feel satisfied wi th the solutions given by 
the company to their problems. The contact can be made via telephone 0800 722 3710  if you are in Brazil or via ombudsman for m if you are in other 
localiTiês : ttps://institucional.xpi.com.br/ouvidoria.aspx/.     
12) The cost of the transactions billing policies are defined in the operational cost tables which are made available on XP I nvestimentos website: 
www.xpi.com.br.
13) XP Investimentos is exempt from any liability for any damages, direct or indirect, that come from the use of this report or its contents.  
  
14) Technical analysis and fundamental analysis follow different methodologies. Technical analysis is performed following con cepts such as trends, 
support, resistance, candles, volume, and moving averages, amongst others. Fundamental analysis uses as information the resul ts disseminated by the 
issuing companies and their projections. In this way, the opinions of fundamental analysts, who seek the best returns given t he market conditions, the 
macroeconomic scenario and the specific events of the company and the sector, may differ from the opinions of technical analy sts, which aim to Identify 
the most likely movements on asset prices, using "stops" limit possible losses.   
15) Investment in stocks is appropriate for moderate and aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy pr acticed by XP Investimentos. 
Equity investments available are portion a company’s capital that is traded on the market. Stock is a variable financial inve stment (i.e. an investment in 
which profitability is not pre -established and varies depending on market quotations). Investment in stock is a high -risk invest ment and past performance is 
not necessarily indicative of future results and no statement or warranty, expressed or implied, is made in this material in relation to future performance. 
Market conditions, macroeconomic scenario, company and sector specific events can affect investment performance and may even result in significant 
asset losses. The recommended duration for equity investments is medium -long term. There is no guarantee of investment return fo r customers’ 
investments in stock.     
16) Investment in options is preferably indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy pract iced by XP Investimentos. In options 
market, the purchase or sale rights of a good shall be negotiated at a price fixed at a future date, and the purchaser of the  negotiated duty should pay a 
premium to the seller as in a secure agreement. Operations with these derivatives are considered very high risk for presentin g high risk and return 
relationships and some positions present the possibility of losses higher than the capital invested. The recommended duration  for the investment is short -
term and the customer's assets are not guaranteed in this type of product.    
17) Investment in terms is indicated for aggressive profile investors, according to the suitability policy practiced by XP In vestimentos. They are contracts for 
the purchase or sale of a certain number of shares at a fixed price for settlement within a specified period. The term of the  contract is freely chosen by the 
investors, complying with the minimum period of 16 days and a maximum of 999 days. The price will be the value of the added s hare of a portion 
corresponding to the interest -which are set freely on the market, depending on the term of the contract. Every transaction in th e term requires a guarantee 
deposit. These guarantees are provided in two forms: coverage or margin.  
18) Investments in futures markets are subject to significant loss of principal, and are therefore appropriate for aggressive  profile investors, according to 
the suitability policies practiced by XP Investimentos. A commodity is an object or price determinant of a future contract or  other derivative instrument, 
which may substantiate an index, a fee, a movable value or a physical product.  CommodiTiês  are considered high risk investments, which include the 
possibility of price fluctuation due to the use of financial leverage. The recommended duration for commodity investments is short-term and customers’ 
assets are not guaranteed in this type of product. Market conditions and the macroeconomic scenario can affect the performanc e investments.  
   
19) This institution is adhering ANBIMA Code of Regulation and best practices for the distribution activity of retail investm ent products.   
 
20) XP Investments US, LLC, a broker -dealer registered with the U.S. SecuriTiês  and Exchange Commission, has assumed responsibility for this research 
for purposes of U.S. law.  All transactions arising from this research should be directed to XP Investments US, LLC, at +1 646 -664-0525September 13, 2023
5Equity Research: Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals

